we study history not because of what it
subtracts from the past but because of
what it adds to the presence variations
on that phrase have been said since time
immemorial different people I'm not
quoting anyone in particular norm I
paraphrase anyone in particular but
pretty much every pretentious history
textbook says something along those
lines and I say it that way because
sometimes i wish i could subtract from
the past i wish i could diminish the
horrors of history by studying but you
can and it's very real fact that today
discussions about human equality and
inequality the future of our society
transpire in the shadow of scientific
racism in the shadow of eugenics in the
shadow of a history of theories of human
inequality that murdered millions of
people but that made the lives of
hundreds of millions miserable you know
um you know apart from the most extreme
examples of what scientific racism can
do to a society the more moderate
examples the miseries that continued for
a lifetime and for millions of
lifetime's those happen on an
unbelievably staggering scale even if
we're just thinking about the last few
centuries and there are many episodes I
mean you know look at the history of the
French colony in Haiti there are Horrors
beyond belief that do not normally get
onto the list of the most often examined
and lamented examples and there are you
know historical figures in the left wing
also who were scientific racists you Jen
assists etc he heard of a guy named John
Maynard Keynes John Maynard Keynes
father of kings eNOS and most people
think of him as left-wing why don't you
go ahead and do a Google search on John
Maynard Keynes eugenics or John Maynard
Keynes anti-semitism you may be in for a
shock for this reason naturally anything
other than the
most politically correct pablum
statement on human equality and
inequality is unwelcome that with
resistance if not hostility and fear and
I understand that but some the idea of
equal rights is really a very different
thing from the idea that humans are
innately equal and the easiest way to
obviate the problem of racism in
discussing this is to talk about
inequalities within the same family
where you know people are brothers and
sisters and therefore there's no ethnic
difference between them I remember I had
one girlfriend and she had only one
sister never cease to amaze me whenever
I saw the two of them together I can
remember saying to my girlfriend because
we knew other couples this app knew I
said to her look you know I know one of
the oldest stories in the book is of a
man who cheats on his wife with his
wife's sister you know there's always
this temptation especially you know the
younger sister because you know your
wife's sister may strongly resemble your
wife the same things that attracted you
to your wife lead you to have an affair
with your wife sister who I said to
hurry so it's amazing whenever I look at
your sister I can't even believe you're
related they weren't half sisters they
were full sisters and they were both
blonde and they both had pale skin but
in every other way I mean the qualities
that made one sister attractive to me or
totally absent in the other sister the
physical qualities were absent the
intellectual qualities the the emotional
qualities of being a kind of caring
person you know if if he were just such
dramatically different people in every
way and the the inequalities between
them in both measurable and immeasurable
ways were so striking you guys watch my
channel for a while you may know I come
from very large family I have a
ridiculously large number of brothers
and sisters and so from that of course I
grew up with an awareness of just how
deep inequalities can be between people
even when they share the same blood or
share
most of the same blood or what have you
and I passionately wanted to believe in
human equality absolute human equality
he was as a child it was deeply
disturbing to me that anyone was born
that anyone was born mentally
disabled the idea that anyone was born
with you know a cognitive disability
that was deeply disturbing to me I
wanted to believe that even though
physically quality existed that mentally
we were all equal and that is a kind of
straitjacket ideology that really
prevents us from having a pragmatic and
positive and loving attitude of let's
make the best of who we are let's
appreciate the advantages and
disadvantages each of us has you know
whether you're forming a political group
to advocate for veganism and ecology or
you're putting together an amateur
hockey team or whatever human
inequalities physical intellectual
inequalities of talent inequalities of
ability are a fact of our lives day
after day after day and it just does not
benefit us in any way to ignore them or
to try to embrace an ideologies that
insists on treating everyone is equal
now in a business context in a charity
context in a political context and in
your personal life and your friends I
think the ultimate expression of
inequality is not intellectual it's not
your computing power and you have raw
sense or something it's not it's not an
Intel pardon me it's not an intelligence
quotient I think the ultimate inequality
is actually of trust of trustworthiness
of reliability you can know someone
who's a good person in many ways but
they have a mental problem that means
you would not trust them to drive a car
they may be a great person but simply
because they can at any time have for
instance spasms they can lose control of
their hands or something some of it
could be a very simple problem doesn't
make them a bad person other ways but it
is not safe for the public it's not safe
for them it's not safe for anyone to
allow that person to drive a car
and in the same way I've recently been
getting you know some disgruntled
messages from from one of my viewers
hear about the open statements I made in
a recent video about the difficulty of
trusting someone or treating someone is
reliable who may have a serious mental
illness such as schizophrenia or bipolar
disorder if you are working with them in
a political organization can you trust
them can you rely on them are they
reliable in the ways that you need them
to be reliable now all of us can't say
all of us most of us in life have worked
with people who had serious mental
disabilities or you know diagnosed
psychological disorders psychiatric
disorders I have one long term frenemy
who is considered legally insane in
Canada do I treat him as equal to my
other friends no i don't but i can
appreciate the positive aspects of his
character i can appreciate the redeeming
qualities he has while I remain acutely
aware of and cautious about the aspects
of his character that maybe aberrant
unreliable that may make him
untrustworthy that may make him
dangerous how do you evaluate someone
when you hire them to be a babysitter
how do you evaluate someone if you hire
them for the job of being a fireman
these things require first and foremost
a certain kind of reliability a certain
kind of trustworthiness and yes if you
know someone is diagnosed with a serious
you know mental disorder psychiatric
disorder obviously that's going to raise
a whole bunch of difficult questions
about in what ways can I trust you with
what tasks can I trust you what tasks
can you be relied upon to do on your own
what tasks you'll be realized to do to
do with others so look last things first
first things last the history of
eugenics which has included the
extermination of P
with mental disorders in Canada it
excluded included the extermination of
our indigenous people the forced
sterilization of our indigenous people
especially in the two western most
provinces by the way it's just included
massacres and what have you obviously
that history cast a shadow over this
topic and it is very difficult
politically for people whether they're
left-wing right-wing center to have
pragmatic discussions about this today
but the concept of equal rights and
equal opportunity actually does not
entail equal responsibility nor equal
trust I said in a recent video
friendship is unequal maybe I can be
your friend in some ways maybe I can
trust you with some things while I'm
aware that I can't trust you with others
and maybe you live in a society that
gives you equal rights and equal
opportunity and you find a job and
you're good at it but you still have a
disability or a disorder that means that
it is not safe for you to do something
as simple as driving a car because that
puts the public at risk and that puts
you at risk this is the sort of dynamic
inequality we all live with every day
and you can live with it if you have
many brothers and sisters you've
probably seen these inequalities within
your own family and that's the situation
when there's no question of racism
scientific racism etc etc